---
layout: post
title:  "Seeking Solitude"
date:   2016-05-25 17:09:09 -0400
categories: life
---

>"Solitude is not measured by the miles of space that intervene between a man and his fellows. The really diligent student in one of the crowded hives of Cambridge College is as solitary as a dervis in the desert. The farmer can work alone in the field or the woods all day, hoeing or chopping, and not feel lonesome, because he is employed; but when he comes home at night he cannot sit down in a room alone, at the mercy of his thoughts, but must be where he can 'see the folks,'' and recreate, and, as he thinks, remunerate himself for his day's solitude; and hence he wonders how the student can sit alone in the house all night and most of the day without ennui and 'the blues'; but he does not realize that the student, though in the house, is still at work in his field, and chopping in his woods, as the farmer in his, and in turn seeks the same recreation and society that the latter does, though it may be a more condensed form of it." - Henry David Thoreau

Here is a contrarian (and possibly controversial) statement: spend less time with family and friends and more time alone.

Let's take a step back and examine the pseudo-sociology/quackery that led me to this conclusion. For any given social group, there are patterns of behavior that define that group. These behavioral patterns are shaped by both intrinsic and extrinsic forces, and the stronger the forces, the tighter-knit the group tends to be. Over time, these patterns become organizational habits that more or less become set in stone, only disrupted by significant exogenous shocks. In a social group, each individual plays a specific role and influences the “culture” of the group - and in return, each individual is also significantly influenced by the group itself. For example, an individual might subconsciously pick up new speech patterns or behavioral mannerism/tics that aren’t characteristic of that person. In addition, the more time a person spends in a social group, the more influence the group exerts on them. I suspect a logarithmic relationship between time and social influence.

The potential problem with all of this stems from the fact that many of us spend a very large portion of our day being surrounded by people exerting all sorts of social influence on us - both at work and at home. Although time spent with family and friends should be cherished, it is nevertheless a fact that we are often neck-deep in external stimuli and social influence. And whether it’s through decision fatigue or the innate human desire to conform, it seems like the more social influence we receive from others, the less conscientious we tend to become. Hence, the proverbial “drinking of the kool-aid”, the "herd mentality", the "lemming effect", etc.

So what? Well, a lack of conscientiousness is generally unproductive and can even be outright dangerous. It’s incredibly easy to get caught up by social influence without even realizing it - just ask any angsty middle school teenager. Members of either populations are probably not of the conscientious type. I also have moments when I get caught up in the social circles that I’m a part of. As the saying goes, "you are the average of your five best friends”, and I find that I am no different.

But it turns out that you don’t have to meditate every morning or go on an occasional weekend bender to become more self-aware (to each their own) - one of the easiest ways to cultivate independent thinking is simply to spend more time alone. And I don’t mean alone as in binge-watching Netflix or playing video games alone in your room. To be truly alone means allowing yourself to delve into your deepest and perhaps darkest thoughts. You are allowing yourself to be vulnerable…to you.

It seems like many people today place a lot of value on being “connected” with friends and family at all times - to the point where being truly alone for a long time is seen as “antisocial”. But that’s precisely why my advice goes against the grain - it’d be waste of time to write about something that everyone talks about. So put that kool-aid down, spend some quality time alone, and listen to your inner voice - and maybe it will make you happier and your life more enriching.