---
layout: post
title:  "Myopia"
date:   2017-04-06 17:09:09 -0400
categories: life
---

>"All journeys have secret destinations of which the traveler is unaware." - Martin Buber

I had the great fortune of "backpacking" across Southeast Asia for almost 4 months this year. Along the way, I experienced China, Thailand, Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia, Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia, in that order. This once-in-a-lifetime experience has taught me a lot about how the world works, and I want to share some nuggets of wisdom with you. 

As an aside - when it comes to travel writing, many people write very similarly about their experiences - in my opinion, they use too many cliché soundbites ("If you haven't traveled, you haven't lived") and not enough personal introspection on the highs and lows (especially the lows) of their journey. So I'll try to write less about what I did and more about my thoughts overall. I also encourage you to do the same if you ever write about your travel experiences.

<br>
<b>1. Different strokes for different folks.</b><br>
Throughout my trip, many people have asked me questions like "how is your vacation going?", or "what's it like being in paradise?". Although it was undoubtedly an amazing experience, the truth is that it was anything but a "vacation" at the time. Moving from place to place every day is hard work! And although Cynthia and I aren't the micromanaging type (we don't feel compelled to plan every moment of every day), we certainly did want to get the best value out of where we ate, where we slept, how we got around, and so on. This inevitably led to some tough situations where we were forced to make decisions with incomplete information, often under severe time constraints. 

Since I am fast-paced and like making decisions quickly, this naturally led to me being in charge of the decision-making process in getting from point A to point B. However, my quick temperament also meant that at times I was rather sloppy with the details and relied too much on a "good enough" mentality when it came to keeping track of my belongings and my finances. In retrospect, I can definitely see how that mentality could've led to some suboptimal decision-making during the trip.

Thankfully, Cynthia is the polar opposite of me in this respect - she is slow, meticulous, and well-organized. I've lost count of how many times I've had to rely on her for keeping track of our stuff and double-checking my assumptions any time we did anything or went anywhere. I have thus gained a newfound appreciation for those who have a different temperament than I do. 


<b>2. Ratings are never accurate.</b><br>
I've noticed time and time again that ratings for many services are inaccurate. In a world where everyone checks the same online sources for the same information, it is easy to get a skewed sense of what something is really like, especially when the ratings don't accurately reflect reality. Whether we're talking about AirBnb, Uber, Yelp, Agoda, or Google Maps, it seems like people's perception of the rating system is such that only 5-star ratings are acceptable, and anything below a 4-star rating is death for the business. As such, many businesses will give you incentives to leave 5-star reviews (20% off your meal, for example) to boost their ratings, which I consider to be highly unethical. At the end of the day, this leads to a binary rating system where you can't really tell the magnitude of how good/bad an establishment is, just whether it is good/bad. 

Here's an example. In Chiang Mai, Thailand, I found a hostel that (at the time) was rated as a 7.7/10 on Agoda.com. A 7.7 rating with 250 total reviews sure sounds pretty good to me - in fact, it's far above average, right? I was proven very wrong when I actually checked into the place. I found bloodstains on the floor, ripped bedsheets, lizards and cockroaches scuttling about, and cobwebs everywhere. The bathroom was filthy and the entire place looked like it hadn't been cleaned in years. A 7.7 rating for this dump? I looked for a new place immediately, and I made sure this time to only filter through places that were rated 9.0 or higher. 

I conjecture that this rating bias is due to American influence, especially as a byproduct of the American education system. For example, in America, anything below an A is considered "not good", whereas I know that in many other countries (namely Denmark, since I've lived there before), receiving a score greater than 50% in a school course can actually be quite difficult. Regardless, this inherent skew of rating systems sure does make consumer choice more difficult. 


<b>3. Historical, geopolitical, and cultural context is so important...</b><br>
I've seen many tourists who go from country to country, doing nothing but drinking and partying. While there's nothing wrong with either of those things in moderation, I wondered if they ever learned anything from their travels (or desired to, for that matter) other than the price of beer in each country. There is so much that each country has to offer in terms of knowledge, and things generally make a lot more sense once you take the time to learn about the context surrounding each country. And in my opinion, learning about each country's history, political/economic situation, ethnic groups, and customs is best done <i>before</i> you actually get there. There's no need to be hardcore about it - just get on Wikipedia and read some articles. You'll be surprised by what you learn. And when you actually do travel, it will make sense why everything in Laos is so expensive, why Indonesia has the largest Muslim population in the world, and why the recently deceased king of Thailand is revered so much (all questions I have heard from other tourists who never bothered to do any research).

